
                      SRILM Research Community License
                                 Version 1.0

1. DEFINITIONS

    1.1. "Community" means the Initial Developer and each and every one of
You.

    1.2. "Contributor" means each individual or legal entity that creates or
contributes to the creation of Modifications.

    1.3. "Distribute" means to transfer, publish, or otherwise provide or
make available a copy of software to any third party.

    1.4. "Distributor" means each individual or legal entity exercising a
right to Distribute Licensed Software under this License.

    1.5. "Distributor Code" means, collectively, (a) the Original Source
Code and (b) the Licensed Software that is Distributed by a particular
Distributor.

    1.6. "Distributor IP" means all patent claims, copyright, and trade
secrets owned or licensable by a Distributor that are embodied in or
necessarily practiced by the Distributor Code of that particular
Distributor.

    1.7. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally
accepted in the software development community for the electronic transfer
of data.

    1.8. "Executable" means software in any form other than Source Code.

    1.9. "Initial Developer" means SRI International ("SRI"), a California
nonprofit public benefit corporation having offices in Menlo Park,
California.

    1.10. "Initial Developer IP" means all patent claims, copyright, and
trade secrets owned or licensable by the Initial Developer which are
embodied in or necessarily practiced by the unmodified Original Source Code.

    1.11. "License" means this agreement, the SRILM Research Community
License Version 1.0.

    1.12. "Licensed Purpose" means the exercise of rights under this
License: (a) by an official governmental agency, strictly for
non-commercial, public benefit purposes, or (b) solely for non-commercial
research purposes in exchange for which no financially valuable
consideration (including but not limited to sales or license revenue,
service revenue, and advertising revenue, and further including but not
limited to monetary, equity, and in-kind forms of consideration) is
received, except for research funding received from an official government
agency sponsor.

    1.13. "Licensed Software" means any copy of the Original Source Code,
the Modifications, and/or Executable versions thereof, as to which You are
exercising any rights under this License.

    1.14. "Modifications" means any derivative work of either the Original
Source Code or of existing Modifications.Including header files or calls to
Licensed Software library functions or Executable programs in an application
program shall not in and of itself cause that application program to be
deemed a Modification, provided that the Licensed Software so included shall
in any case remain subject to the terms of this License.

    1.15. "Original Source Code" means the Source Code for the SRI Language
Modeling Toolkit as made available for download by SRI International from
URL http://www.speech.sri.com/ or ftp://ftp.speech.sri.com/ as of July 1,
1999.

    1.16. "Source Code" means the preferred form of software for making
modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, scripts used to control compilation and
installation of an Executable, or a list of source code differential
comparisons against either the Original Source Code or another well known,
available Modification of the Contributor's choice. The Source Code can be
in a compressed or archival form, provided the appropriate decompression or
de-archiving software is widely available for no charge.

    1.17. "You" means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights
under this License. For legal entities, "You" includes any entity that
controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with You. For
purposes of this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or
indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of
the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. SOFTWARE LICENSE GRANTS

    2.1. The Initial Developer Grant. The Initial Developer hereby grants
the Community worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive rights, solely for the
Licensed Purpose and subject to the terms and conditions of this
License(including without limitation the Contributor and Distributor grants
set forth in Section 2 and the Distribution Obligations set forth in Section
3), as follows:

    (a) A license under the Initial Developer IP to modify, copy, use, and
Distribute the Original Source Code and Modifications.
    (b) A license to copy, use and Distribute Executable versions of the
Original Source Code and Modifications.

    2.2. Distributor Grant. If You are a Distributor, You hereby grant the
Community a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license under the
Distributor IP, solely for the Licensed Purpose and subject to the terms and
conditions of this License, to modify copy, use, and Distribute the
Distributor Code and Modifications.

    2.3. Sublicenses. The license rights that are granted under this Section
2 may be sublicensed only by Distributing Licensed Software in compliance
with all applicable terms and conditions of this License. No other
sublicensing of intellectual property rights granted under this License is
permitted.

    2.4. No Other Rights. Except as expressly set forth in this section 2,
no other license rights are implied or otherwise granted under this License.

3. DISTRIBUTION OBLIGATIONS

The right to Distribute Licensed Software set forth above, whether to a
government sponsor or to any other recipient, is subject to the following
obligations:

    3.1. Notice of License to Recipients.Any publication or other
Distribution of Licensed Software must be made expressly subject to this
License.You must include a prominent copy of the notice set forth in Exhibit
A with all Licensed Software that you Distribute: (a) in all notices or
documentation in which You describe the origin or ownership of the software
or the recipient's rights thereto, and (b) in each Source Code file. You
hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor to the
Licensed Software for any and all liability or damages they may incur if
caused by Your violation of this Section. Except as expressly authorized by
this License, no right is granted to use the name of SRI in any advertising,
news release, other publication, or product documentation, without the prior
express written consent of SRI.

    3.2. Required Availability of Source Code. If You Distribute Licensed
Software for which you are a Contributor, You must make the Source Code for
all Modifications to which you contribute publicly available to the
Community, under the terms of this License and at no additional restriction
or cost, via an accepted Electronic Distribution Mechanism for a period of
at least twelve (12) months following the date You first Distribute the
Licensed Software.You must also include with the Source Code a file
documenting any changes You made to create each Modification, and the dates
of such changes.

    3.3. Licensee Registration. Before You Distribute any Licensed Software
under this License, You must first register by sending email to the Initial
Developer addressed to srilm@speech.sri.com, including a statement
confirming that you accept the terms and conditions of this License and
describing the specific Electronic Distribution Mechanism you are using
(e.g., identify the URL) to make Source Code available under Section 3.2
where applicable.

4. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

LICENSED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE
LICENSED SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE
OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY LICENSED SOFTWARE PROVE
DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY CONTRIBUTOR)
ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS
DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE
OF ANY LICENSED SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS
DISCLAIMER.
 
5. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY
CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF LICENSED SOFTWARE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY
OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING,
WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER
FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES,
EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH
OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT
APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW
THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THAT
EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

6. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

You are responsible for damages arising, directly or indirectly, out of Your
exercise of rights under this License, based on the number of copies of
Licensed Software you made available, the revenues you received from
utilizing such rights, and other relevant factors. You agree to work with
affected parties to distribute responsibility on an equitable basis.

7. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

The Licensed Software is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in 48
C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer software" and
"commercial computer software documentation," as such terms are used in 48
C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R.
227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users
acquire Licensed Software with only those rights set forth herein.

8. MISCELLANEOUS.

This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter
hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such
provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
enforceable. This License shall be governed by California law provisions
(except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides otherwise), excluding
its conflict-of-law provisions. With respect to disputes in which at least
one party is a citizen of, or an entity chartered or registered to do
business in, the United States of America any litigation relating to this
Agreement shall be subject to personal jurisdiction and venue in the Federal
Courts of the Northern District of California, and in the California state
courts of San Mateo County, California, with the losing party responsible
for costs, including without limitation, court costs and reasonable
attorneys fees and expenses. The application of the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly
excluded. Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a
contract shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this
License.

                                 EXHIBIT A.

The contents of this file are subject to the SRILM Community Research
License Version 1.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.speech.sri.com/srilm/. Software distributed under the License is
distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either
express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing
rights and limitations under the License. Portions of the software are
Copyright (c) SRI International, 1995-2011.  All rights reserved.

